[Voices overlap. One reads from a piece of paper. Two explores space around One.]

One: Sometimes it seems like everyone’s drowning. They embrace the feeling — that sensation of water filling your lungs, choking you. It’s supposed to push you past your limits and bring you back stronger. It’s supposed to tear you down and build you back up.

One: Except, when I’m drowning, I don’t want to fight to the surface for air. I want to hold my breath and sink to the bottom of the ocean. I want to feel the water settle between my fingers. I want to be enveloped in its darkness and consoled by its stillness. It’s safe on the ocean floor.

Two: "I'm scared that I'm not myself in here and I'm scared that I am." [Orange in the New Black]

One: Depression is 

Two: Is a medical illness that affects how you feel, think, behave causing persistent feelings of sadness and loss of interest in previously enjoyed activities. [DSM 5]

One: Is insomnia.

Two: Is associated with a sad, apathetic  or irritable mood, crying, and a lack of motivation.

One: Is slipping grades and losing friendships.

Two: Is linked to problems or imbalances in the brain with regard to the neurotransmitters serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine. 

One: Is starving and binging.

Two: Is the presentation of at least five of the nine following symptoms: depressed mood or irritable, decreased interest or pleasure

One: Is loneliness.

Two: Significant weight change, change in sleep

One: Is stagnation.

Two: Change in activity, fatigue or loss of energy

One: Is comforting — like an addiction. 

Two: Guilt, concentration, and suicidality. 

One: Depression is ephemereal. 

Two: Are you worried that you’re going to kill yourself tonight?

One: Somewhere I lost the part of me that needs more than endless greyscale. I lost the part of me that grew tired of overpromising and underdelivering. I lost the part of me that wants to live vibrantly and vividly. 

Two: The worst part of depression is you believe you will never change, never heal, never achieve, never be content, and never be free of it.

One: Somewhere — in between wherever here is and home — I lost the part of me I tried to hold on to.

Two: The worst part of depression is when it hits you, you can literally feel it. It's like being punch in the chest by an invisible boxer. 

One: Somewhere in the past year and a half I lost myself.

Two: The worst part of depression is when someone asks you "Are you okay?" and you start to cry #wellthatanswersthatquestion

One: Because I don’t trust myself to be honest. It’s like all I want is for someone to notice that I’m not but all I can think is that I would never let them: it’s too easy to lie. 

Two: The worst part of depression is never being awake, but never really being asleep. 

One: The temptation of life’s veneer is as much a blessing as it is a burden.

Two: "Cause of that smiling secret service guy, Amy, 66 percent disapprove. That's everyone in America who's awake right now."[Veep]

One: I am sassy.

Two: I am brave.

One: I am kind. I am thoughtful.

Two: I am humble. 

One: I am scared. 

One: I am scared that I feel like I’m killing myself. Not to be mistaken for being scared that I feel like killing myself. I am scared that I’m dying. And one day I’ll wake up and find that I’ve withered away. And no one will have noticed.

Two: "I had to pretend not to like it to Kent while pretending to like it like he was pretending to like it, but he didn't actually like it and I actually really liked it." [Veep]

One: It doesn’t always look the way we want it to. Yes, it’s the woman curled up in a ball on her bed at 1pm in the afternoon. But it’s also the woman smiling with her friends and laughing at their jokes. And sometimes it’s the woman solving everyone else’s crises to avoid her own.

Two: The worst part of depression is-- 

One: How do you say that you’re not okay?

One: How do you say that you wish you had cancer so that you had permission to die? How do you say that you are proud of those Cs because it means that you did not die this semester? How do you say that you saved Psychiatric Emergency Services in your contacts — just in case?

One: I guess I chose this post because I need to hear more stories like mine. I’m putting my name and my face to depression because I need you to know that this could be your friend or your family or the person sitting next to you in class. Or maybe this is you.

One: We want to tell stories of triumph — when we know that there is a happy ending. 

One: But some days I need to believe that superheroes are the ones who stay up too late fumbling their way through a proof, forget to brush their teeth the next morning, and FaceTime with their dog in-between classes.

One: Because — some days — the bravest thing I can do is get up.

Two: Every day I wish I could've fixed her.

[Drift to black with piano cover of "House That Built Me" playing.]